Create a page for blob: URLs (#40508)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/uri/reference/schemes/blob/index.md

## Syntax

```url
blob:<origin>/<uuid>
```

- `blob:`
  - : The scheme of the URL.
- `<origin>`
  - : The [origin](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL/origin) of the creator of this URL. If the creator's origin is opaque, then this part is implementation-defined.
- `<uuid>`
  - : A {{glossary("UUID")}}.

## Usage notes

### Memory management

Each time you call `createObjectURL()`, a new object URL is created, even if you've already created one for the same object. Each of these must be released by calling {{domxref("URL.revokeObjectURL_static", "URL.revokeObjectURL()")}} when you no longer need them. As long as there's one object URL active, the underlying object cannot be garbage-collected and may cause memory leaks.

Browsers will release object URLs automatically when the document is unloaded; however, for optimal performance and memory usage, if there are safe times when you can explicitly unload them, you should do so.

> However, avoid freeing the object URL too early. One common antipattern is the following:

Author: ```suggestion
However, avoid freeing the object URL too early. One common anti-pattern is the following:
```
